there are many dangers ahead
orca attack collisions with ships
his mother's back is lined with scars
from a boat propeller
but the young calf faces an even more
immediate threat
from a very dangerous animal
male humpbacks come here every year
looking for a chance to mate
they compete amongst themselves for
access to the females
their rivalry can be very dangerous
some females in these waters are looking
for a mate but not this mother with her
vulnerable young calf
if she doesn't shake off the
testosterone charged males
her calf could be crushed to death in a
scrum of 30 ton bodies
the males chase her down jostling to get
into position to try and mate with her
the calf struggles to keep up
the mother guides her calf up for breath
and uses her body as a block
to protect him from the males
the males become more aggressive as they
battle for access
the five-meter-long fins edged with
sharp barnacles
are swung like clubs
their bodies can be weapons too
a breach that severely wound a rival
or crush a calf caught up in a fight
the calf is exhausted
[Music]
but finally his mother who's bigger and
stronger than the males
gets her message across
the males move on
minky whales make their way into these
placid waters in summer
this is the most abundant whale in the
southern ocean
minkies are one of the smallest of all
the baleen whales
and like all others they come here to
feed
the majestic humpback whales are also
summer visitors
they have traveled thousands of miles
from their winter breeding grounds in
the tropics
to gather the food that becomes
available here in summer
in just four months they accumulate
enough fat
to provide them with energy for the
whole of the rest of the year
all these animals have come here in
search of one
thing the krill krill
is the mainstay of the antarctic food
web
it occurs in phenomenal quantity
billions of individuals in a single
swarm
and swarms can stretch for miles
fur seals also collect this rich super
abundant food
cruel swarms are very patchy but once
found
feeding is easy
[Music]
hmm
humpbacks engulf hundreds of thousands
of them
in a single gargantuan mouth
when the going is good the whales feed
continuously each eating up to two
tons of fuel in 24 hours
off the coast of patagonia southern
right whales are assembling
the males announced their arrival by
gigantic leaps
100 tons propelled into the air with the
flip of the tail
the sound above water is like a cannon
shot
below it must be felt for miles around
and here these whales demonstrate their
solution
to that crucial problem for all mammals
if they're to live
permanently in the sea how to breed
in water
this female is surrounded by ardent
males
she's not yet ready to mate and rolls
over on her back
in an attempt to keep her genital region
away from her suitors
but that is not easy when a male is as
formidably equipped
as a right whale
a slit has opened in the male's
underside and a penis protrudes
12 feet long and highly mobile
the males barge and jostle one another
to reach her
and several may succeed one after the
other
now seemingly the female has changed her
mind
she writes herself and leaves the
surface
now she is ready to receive a male
[Music]
male right whales have gigantic testes
the largest
in the world they weigh a ton and
produce
gallons of sperm one coupling can flush
out whatever preceded it
so it may not be the first male who
succeeded in copulating
who becomes a father it will be the last
[Music]
the inlets echo to the sound of a
mysterious song
a curtain of bubbles and a haunting call
hold the secret to an ingenious way of
[Music]
fishing
[Applause]
[Music]
this is bubble net feeding
a dozen whales work together to harvest
the herring bonanza
such fishing requires an extraordinary
level
of intelligence and cooperation
the lead whale dives first she is the
bubble blower
[Music]
it's her job to find the fish
the rest follow in formation
each takes exactly the same position in
every lunge
once she's located the fish the leader
blows
a net of bubbles that completely
encircles the shoal
[Music]
another whale calls to synchronize the
group
[Music]
panicked by the eerie sound and the
blinding bubbles
the fish won't cross this fizzing curve
[Music]
as few as a hundred humpbacks have
learned how to feed
as a team like this
[Music]
and this is the only place on the planet
where whales fish
in this way
[Music]
this is a real wildlife drama happening
right now
just surfacing right behind the sea lion
almost like they're playing with him but
i think it's more because
he's just in amongst kelp thick seaweed
which forms like a forest under under
the water possible also that it's quite
shallow here and they can't quite get in
at him
no match for an entire pod of killer
whales the brainy sea lion
wisely hides where they can't follow
hiding in the kelp makes it harder for
the killer whales to see him and
impossible
to actually get at him
the frustrated killer whales step the
hunt up a gear the jumping the splashing
and the tail slaps
are all meant to intimidate the sea lion
and drive him out of the kelp
i don't believe what's happening
this is the most incredible wildlife
drama i think i've ever seen
they're trying to freak it out and drive
it out from where it from it's
where it's hiding
over here we've got one thrashing its
tail going
absolutely crazy with tail slaps
he's heading out he's heading away our
gutsy sea lion hasn't been fooled
he's using his superior maneuverability
to outwit the orca
big burst of bubbles right underneath
where the sea lion was
it's a waiting game for both the killer
whales and the sea lion
the sea lion's back out again
just remarkable and the sea lion
has managed to escape i can't believe
the way our drama seems to be finishing
the sea lions headed off in that
direction and our pod of orca just
seemed to have given up
and they're heading off that way
there they go he got away with it he
escaped
that has got to be the gutsiest sea lion
on the planet
swimming in that direction right around
the shore
[Music]
you